USAGE: ivinstall [MODE-OPTION] [OPTIONS] DEVICE

DESCRIPTION

    ivinstall is a self-extracting shell archive that installs Yocto-built
    Linux images (bootloaders, kernel, rootfs) onto iVeia target hardware via
    one of multiple methods (SD, JTAG, SSH).  The script is self-contained: all
    of the required boot images are baked into this script, and therefore it
    can be shared and/or transferred to other users/machines.

    Images are installed onto DEVICE, which is a top-level block device.  The
    DEVICE refers to the actual block device name, so this will vary on the
    host.  On the target, as a convenience an alias can be used for the DEVICE:
        - /dev/mmcblk0 or sd0 or sd refer to the io-board SD card.
        - /dev/mmcblk1 or sd1 or emmc refer to the SoM eMMC.
    See MODE OPTIONS for more details.

    It runs on either a Linux host or the Linux target.  A subset of features
    are supported on other Unix hosts (e.g. macos).

    The files installed and used in the boot process are:
        - Xilinx bootloaders and firmware (e.g. FSBL)
        - U-Boot and its environment
        - Linux kernel and device tree files
        - Rootfs

    All of the above, except the rootfs, are stored on the first partition of
    the SD or eMMC.  The rootfs can be stored in one of two places:
        - As an initramfs (historically named initrd (init ramdisk)) it can be
          stored as a single file named "initrd" along with the other boot
          files.  In this case, the rootfs is loaded into memory, and runtime
          changes to the rootfs are not stored on disk.  On boot, initrd
          supercedes ext4, i.e.  if initrd exists, it will be used.
        - As an ext3 formatted partition on the SD or eMMC.  In this case,
          runtime rootfs changes are saved to disk.  However, the rootfs cannot
          be fully replaced with an updated rootfs at runtime.  To update the
          rootfs, a reboot or alternate method is required.  When used, the
          ext3 image is required in partition 3.

    The bootloader may optionally be burned to QSPI flash using the -q option.

MODE OPTIONS

    -z
        SD MODE

        The default install option.  Install images to the given DEVICE.
        Optionally partition and format device.  SD mode is fast when
        formatting is not required, but does require manually
        ejecting/inserting SD cards when run on the host.

        The SD card will contain 4 partitions (shown with default label and
        type):
            1) "IVEIA-BOOT", FAT32:     boot files
            2) <unlabeled>, raw:        small partition for optional data
            3) "IVEIA-ROOTFS", EXT4:    Linux root file system
            4) "IVEIA-SDHOME", EXT4:    Linux user data partition

        When using SD mode on the host, ivinstall must be run as root, e.g.,
        "sudo ivinstall ..." to perform a format or ext4 rootfs install.

        For copying without ext4 (i.e. -k or -d options), sudo is not required.
        In this case, the DEVICE can refer to a block device (which must be
        mounted) or a directory to install the boot files.  In addition,
        macos is supported.

        Can be run on a Linux host or target, in both cases DEVICE refers to
        the block device or directory attached to the machine running this
        utility.

    -s SSH_TARGET
        SSH MODE

        Install via ssh to SD card on target.  SSH_TARGET is of the same form
        used by ssh, i.e. [user@]ip_address.  ssh is the fastest method, but
        requires a running target.  Also, ssh cannot update a mounted ext4
        rootfs while the target is running.

        Can only be run on a host.  The DEVICE refers to the device name on the
        target (see DESCRIPTION).

    -j
        JTAG MODE

        Install via JTAG to SD card on target.  Requires installed Vivado
        command line tool xsdb.  This is by far the slowest method, however it
        requires no user intervention, and can completely reformat a target
        even if it is bricked or the network is not available.  JTAG mode does
        not use DEVICE.

        Can only be run on a host.  The DEVICE refers to the device name on the
        target (see DESCRIPTION).

OPTIONS

    -b SIZE
        Size in MB of FAT boot partition, default 4GB (or 512MB for SD cards
        less than 16GB).

    -B SIZE
        Size in MB of rootfs partition, default 1024MB.

    -c
        Copy the necessary boot files to the SD card.  Copies rootfs as ext4 to
        partition 3.

    -d
        Copies the initrd instead of ext4 rootfs.  Implies -c (copy).

    -f
        Partition and format the SD card.

    -J JTAG_REMOTE
        Run JTAG commands from a remote host that is connected via JTAG to a
        target.  JTAG_REMOTE is of the same form used by ssh, i.e.
        [user@]ip_address.  JTAG_REMOTE machine can be Linux or Windows.  Only
        valid in JTAG MODE.

    -k
        Skip copying rootfs for faster install.  Implies -c (copy).

    -h
        Show this help message and exit.

    -i IOBOARD
        Target io-board for which the SD card will be configured.  This will
        setup boot to use the correct device tree overlay file, which will
        correctly configure all io-board interfaces.  Implies -c.  See
        SUPPORTED BOARDS for allowed IOBOARDs.

    -n NAME
        Optional volume name (label) prefix for all partitions; default is
        "IVEIA".  Full labels for each partition are shown in section MODE
        OPTIONS.  Implies -f.

    -q
        Reflash the QSPI.  Only valid on target, or when run on host via SSH or
        JTAG modes.

    -v
        Report version from which images were built and md5sums of all images
        in the archive.  If the -s (ssh) option is used, will also verify that
        the md5sums on the target match the ones in the archive.  With -s and
        -d, will also verify initrd.  With -s and -q, will also verify QSPI
        flash.

    -x
        Extract only.  Extracts contents of this installer to temp directory
        and exits.

SUPPORTED BOARDS

    Mainboard supported:
        $MACHINE

    IO boards supported:
$(echo $IOBOARDS | xargs -n1 | sed 's/^/        /')

EXAMPLES

    sudo ivinstall -f -c -n MY_CARD -b 256 /dev/sdb
        Partition & format the device "/dev/sdb".  Name the volume "MY_CARD"
        and copy over the necessary boot files.  The FAT boot partition will be
        256 MB.

    ivinstall -jJ user@192.168.1.123 -c -q emmc
        Install from host 192.168.1.123 which is connected to the target via
        JTAG.  Do not format eMMC, but copy all bootfiles to it, and reflash
        QSPI as well.
